# EconomicImpactFire
## Introduction
JupyterLab implementation of case studies included within report Economic Impact of Fire - Cost and Impact of Fire Protection in Buildings. This report has been prepared for the NFPA Research Foundation. It presents the outcomes of the project entitled “Economic Impact of Fire: Cost and Impact of Fire Protection in Buildings” which was carried out from October 2021 to July 2022 in response to a Request for Proposal from the Foundation. The report has been prepared by Dr Ruben Van Coile, Dr Andrea Lucherini, and Mr Ranjit Chaudary at Ghent University, Dr Shuna Ni and Dr David Unobe at Utah State University, and Dr Thomas Gernay at Johns Hopkins University.

## Licenses, Copyright Notices and Acknowledgements
JupyterLab codes demonstrating the application of a prototype methodology for the cost-benefit evaluation of investments in fire protection were developed with support from the Fire Protection Research Foundation. The project team consisted of Ruben Van Coile, Andrea Lucherini and Ranjit Kumar Chaudhary at Ghent University; Shuna Ni and David Unobe at Utah State University; and Thomas Gernay at Johns Hopkins University.

The five case studies cover a range of building types and fire protection features. They are used for demonstration purpose and their outcomes should not be generalized to draw conclusions on effectiveness of particular fire protection measures for broad classes of buildings. Importantly, sensitivity analyses are provided to illustrate the effects of varying input data on the present net value. The sensitivity studies show the importance of input data in evaluating the cost-benefit analysis of fire protection measures. Through these sensitivity analyses, the methodology allows evaluating the robustness of the cost-benefit evaluations. The code allows users to input their own data in order to run calculations for their specific applications. The results of such evaluations can support decision making for policy makers, insurance companies, and individual building owners. 

The codes and any related documentation is licensed under the GNU Public license version 3: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html, subject to the following conditions:

USE OF THIS TOOL IS AT THE USER’S OWN RISK; IT IS PROVIDED AS IS AND AS AVAILABLE WITHOUT GUARANTEE OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED (INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE) AND WITHOUT REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY REGARDING ITS ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, USEFULNESS, TIMELINESS, RELIABILITY OR APPROPRIATENESS. NFPA ASSUMES NO RESPONSIBILITY OR LIABILITY IN CONNECTION WITH THE INFORMATION OR OPINIONS CONTAINED IN OR EXPRESSED BY THIS TOOL, ITS USE OR OUTPUT.
